# Tutorial breakdown of groceryList.js

The function pipeDelimitedList(shoppingList) uses the parameter shoppingList as a placeholder in lieu of the initial declared array groceryList. This came as a suggestion from Bing chat. It said that you could actually pass groceryList as a parameter in the function and it would work, however, as the initial array is declared globally, it is considered poor practice to reference a globally declared variable as a function parameter. The reason behind this is that it could get confusing, and throw errors, if you end up trying to modify the global variable, i.e. the groceryList array, within the function.

I've just realised another reason for using a placeholder paramter in a function. I could declare multiple arrays and, at the end of my code, log each array as a delimited list by putting in the name of the required array as the parameter when I call my function with console.log(). On that note, another suggestion of Bing was that console.log() shouldn't be called within a function, for numerous reasons, and to avoid issues. It should be used sparingly, usually for debugging, and outside any functions.

With the loops, they were originally much simpler. However I wanted specific formatting for neatness and readability within the console. This was ultimately achieved, but was a waste of time and should be avoided outside of learning purposes. The outside loop is a for loop with conditions to iterate through the entire array.

Within that for loop is the first if statement. it tests if the element selected is the first one in the array. If yes, it doesn't add a space before the item, when displaying it in the terminal, but it does add a space after the item & a |. If I didn'tcare about that first space, I could remove that whole first if statement. Superfluous code because I get upset at spaces. Will have to bring this up with my counsellor.

The else if condition then moves past the first element and checks if it is any other element, other than the last element. If yes, it adds a space bfore the element, a space after, then a |, & logs the result in the terminal. The last else statement, doesn't have a condition because there can only be the last element left. It adds a space before the last element, but does not add a space after, nor a |, because I want it to be clear the list has ended.

It just got much more complicated. It is very helpful to understand how to access a value within a key-value pair, which was another suggestion from Bing chat. In my code, the key is an object, apparently, named groceryLists but instead of storing a single value, you use {} to store many values. In this instance, I stored multiple arrays, each containing multiple strings i.e. a separate grocery list in each array.

I am uncertain but I postulate that only a single array can be assigned to an object, at any one time, if you wish to return said object & log it to the console, or display it in some other fashion. I could be very wrong. It's possible you could console.log() an object with 76 separate arrays, assigned simultaneously, each with 45 individual elements, and your console would just spit out 3420 separate items.

I don't want to do that. So, in order to specify which array should be assigned to the object groceryLists, I use a key. Within the object groceryLists, each separate array is stored with a value. The values of each array were very simple. one, two, three. To access the first shoppping list, I assign it the value one. Then I call key.value e.g. groceryLists.one where the variable groceryLists is the key & the first shopping list has the value of one.

Having created a key-pair variable containing three shopping lists, I needed a way to access them from my function whichGroceryList(), which prompts the user to select a grocery list to be displayed. The following 3 paragraphs are an explanation of the groceryLists[whichList] command given by Bing chat.

groceryLists[whichList] is using the bracket notation to access the value of a property in an object. The object is groceryLists, which is an object that contains four properties: one, two, three, and four. Each property has a value that is an array of items. The property name is the key, and the array is the value. For example, groceryLists.one is the key, and [“All-Bran”, “Cucumber”, “Rice”, “Lentils”, “Potatoes”, “Onions”] is the value.

The bracket notation allows you to use a variable or an expression as the key to access the value of a property. For example, if you have a variable called x that has the value “one”, you can use groceryLists[x] to access the same value as groceryLists.one. The bracket notation evaluates the expression inside the brackets and uses the result as the key.

In this case, whichList is a variable that stores the user input from the prompt function. The user can enter one, two, three, or four as their choice of a grocery list. The whichList variable will have the same value as the user input. Therefore, groceryLists[whichList] will access the value of the property that matches the user input. For example, if the user enters two, then whichList will have the value “two”, and groceryLists[whichList] will access the value [“Celery”, “Worcestershire sauce”, “Rice”, “Cummin powder”, “Cooking salt”].

When using the prompt() function with concatenation backticks like this prompt(`Prompt user for input:`), you cannot add extra lines for formatting. It will break the prompt function, causing endless lines & repeats of strings in the bash terminal. You can use the backticks if you keep it all one one line, though. The safest solution I found is to just use a string "" with the \n command to move various sentences to new lines.

Unfinished code. Trying to write a function to parse user input in integers to words. I.e. 4 in four. It's complicated and fiddly. Apparently there is a numbers-to-words library somewhere but work calls, thank God. I can't take much more of this. I just want the pain to stop.
